# NSO and Pegasus Spyware Dilemma
In this document, I discuss two articles about NSO's Pegasus Sypware and how it was utilized by some of NSO's clients to retrieve personal data of many politicians and journalists over the past couple years. I present you META and the U.S. government's crackdown on the matter and NSO's strong stance on committing to improve spyware. 

## Article 1
In Reuters' [U.S. Supreme Court lets Meta's WhatsApp pursue 'Pegasus' spyware suit](https://www.reuters.com/legal/us-supreme-court-lets-metas-whatsapp-pursue-pegasus-spyware-suit-2023-01-09/), the United States' governments intentions to crackdown on this cutting edge zero-click spyware tool is evident. Exploiting a bug in WhatsApp, NSO's Pegasus spyware was allegedly used to survey 1,400 people, including politicians, journalists and human rights activists. While NSO denied collusion and did not claim responsibility for customer malpractice, both META and Biden Administration believes that NSO's work violate U.S. law and poises critical security threat. 

It is against human rights to conduct survalliance on people without their consent excluding extreme cases such as terrorist organizations. With that in mind, what NSO product Pegasus is capable of needs to heavily regulated. In that regards, I side with META and US government's efforts to tighten the control around such applications of spyware. However, one thing that stands out in this situation is that most of, if not all, NSO's clients are governments. So, if governments use such spyware against one another, how can a private corporation can impose control over countries and how they use the spyware? I believe the U.S. government itself used Pegasus before for a domestic terror threat. So, while there must be more control over such product, I believe it is very difficult to achieve that. 

## Article 2
Contrary to the efforts of META and the U.S. government in Reuters' piece on the issue, Wall Street Journal's [Head of Israeli Cyber Firm NSO Group Reaffirms Company Commitment to Spyware](https://www.wsj.com/articles/head-of-israeli-cyber-firm-nso-group-reaffirms-company-commitment-to-spyware-11674738269?mod=tech_lead_pos10) reveals that NSO is still committed to creating the tomorrow of spyware. By embracing its core mission to fight crime and terror, NSO CEO recently re-emphasized the necessity of this kind of technology for law-enforcement agencies and governments.

While the company declared that it cut ties with 10 customers who NSO believed misused Pegasus, the company wants to focus on the intended use case of the product. While my concerns around how to avoid alternative uses cases of Pegasus, I think what NSO is doing is pushing humanity's technological capability as well as security forward. Thus, I think this is like any other innovation where technology advances first, then legislation and control try to catch up with that pace. If right frameworks and global data security and spyware legislations are put in place, I believe what NSO is doing could be game-changer in fighting terrorism and crime. 
```
